#  ims-kiwi-ng-opensuse-x86_64-builder
An openSUSE x86-64-based Docker image containing the kiwi-ng tool for image 
building. This is part of the CMS Image Management and Image Customization
toolset for Shasta-based systems.

##IMS Workflow

This container is part of the IMS workflow used to create new images from a kiwi
recipe description. Upon successful building of a recipe, the follow on containers
are expected to package and upload build artifacts to ARS.

Upon failure to build a recipe, this container sets a flag used by the follow on
containers to know that the build failed. 

PARAMETER_FILE_BUILD_FAILED=$IMAGE_ROOT_PARENT/build_failed

In the case of a failure, follow on containers have the option of enabling a SSH
shell where the administrator can access the failed image root in order to determine
the nature of the failure and how to resolve. 

# Container Runs as Root

Kiwi-ng must be run as root in order to build and chroot into the image root being 
built. There are Kiwi plugins that allow Kiwi-ng to not require root access, however 
these plugins also require virtualization, which is not available within a docker
container. 

There is future work that will hopefully mitigate any concern regarding this container 
running as root. However, until this work is completed, the container will need to run
as root.

## Getting Started
### Prerequisites
To build and use the ims-kiwi-ng-opensuse-x86_64-builder Docker image, you will
need Docker installed on your system, and a viable Kiwi image recipe. See the
[Kiwi Docs](https://opensource.suse.com/kiwi/) to learn more about creating
image recipes.

### Installation
Just clone this repo and `cd` into it. Bang! You're done.

### Build the Docker Image
```
docker build -t ims-kiwi-ng-opensuse-x86_64-builder:dev .
```

### Usage (Local Image Builds via Docker)
1. Make a directory for your Kiwi image recipe and populate it:
```
# mkdir -p /path/to/recipe
# cp -r /my/recipe/* /path/to/recipe
```
2. Make a directory to hold the build root generated by Kiwi
```
# mkdir -p /path/to/build-root
```
3. Run the container to build the image root using the directories you created
   above as volumes. This step will take a while and depending on the image
   recipe will consume considerable memory and disk space.
```
# docker run --privileged=true --rm -v /path/to/recipe:/mnt/recipe -v /path/to/build-root:/mnt/image ims-kiwi-ng-opensuse-x86_64-builder:dev
[ INFO    ]: 22:02:20 | Loading XML description
[ INFO    ]: 22:02:20 | --> loaded /mnt/recipe/config.xml
[ INFO    ]: 22:02:20 | --> Selected build type: oem
[ INFO    ]: 22:02:20 | Preparing new root system
[ INFO    ]: 22:02:20 | Setup root directory: /mnt/build-root/build/image-root
[ INFO    ]: 22:02:21 | Setting up repository obs://Virtualization:Appliances:Builder/SLE_12_SP3

...
[ INFO    ]: 22:25:07 | Result files:
[ INFO    ]: 22:25:07 | --> disk_image: /mnt/build-root/my-image.x86_64-1.0.0.raw
[ INFO    ]: 22:25:07 | --> image_packages: /mnt/build-root/my-image.x86_64-1.0.0.packages
[ INFO    ]: 22:25:07 | --> image_verified: /mnt/build-root/my-image.x86_64-1.0.0.verified
```
The resulting image (raw format) will be in `/path/to/build-root/` on your host
system. The image root will be in `path/to/build-root/build/image-root/`.

## Deployment
This Docker image will be deployed as part of the Shasta management plane
stack via Kubernetes, specifically as a part of the Image Management Service.

## Development
Development on this repository should follow the standard CMS development
[process](https://connect.us.cray.com/confluence/x/fFGfBQ).

## Build Helpers
This repo uses some build helpers from the 
[cms-meta-tools](https://github.com/Cray-HPE/cms-meta-tools) repo. See that repo for more details.

## Local Builds
If you wish to perform a local build, you will first need to clone or copy the contents of the
cms-meta-tools repo to `./cms_meta_tools` in the same directory as the `Makefile`. When building
on github, the cloneCMSMetaTools() function clones the cms-meta-tools repo into that directory.

For a local build, you will also need to manually write the .version, .docker_version (if this repo
builds a docker image), and .chart_version (if this repo builds a helm chart) files. When building
on github, this is done by the setVersionFiles() function.

## Versioning
The version of this repo is generated dynamically at build time by running the version.py script in 
cms-meta-tools. The version is included near the very beginning of the github build output. 

In order to make it easier to go from an artifact back to the source code that produced that artifact,
a text file named gitInfo.txt is added to Docker images built from this repo. For Docker images,
it can be found in the / folder. This file contains the branch from which it was built and the most
recent commits to that branch. 

For helm charts, a few annotation metadata fields are appended which contain similar information.

For RPMs, a changelog entry is added with similar information.

## New Release Branches
When making a new release branch:
    * Be sure to set the `.x` and `.y` files to the desired major and minor version number for this repo for this release. 
    * If an `update_external_versions.conf` file exists in this repo, be sure to update that as well, if needed.

## Authors
* Eric Cozzi
* Randy Kleinman
* Add your name here if you want praise or blame later

## Copyright and License
This project is copyrighted by Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP and is under the MIT
license. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

When making any modifications to a file that has a Cray/HPE copyright header, that header
must be updated to include the current year.

When creating any new files in this repo, if they contain source code, they must have
the HPE copyright and license text in their header, unless the file is covered under
someone else's copyright/license (in which case that should be in the header). For this
purpose, source code files include Dockerfiles, Ansible files, RPM spec files, and shell
scripts. It does **not** include Jenkinsfiles, OpenAPI/Swagger specs, or READMEs.

When in doubt, provided the file is not covered under someone else's copyright or license, then
it does not hurt to add ours to the header.
